This next section of the course
is called Odds and Ends.
These are things that I could have
included in other sections of the course,
but I didn't wanna distract too much
from driving at that deeper understanding
of the JavaScript programming language.
But still, these things are interesting,
and parts of, in some ways,
the things that people find odd, or
weird, or difficult to get used to.
So let's start with initialization.
We've seen how we can use object literals,
array literals, and
function expressions to set up our
objects, arrays, and functions.
What I find as when folks who aren't yet
used to all that literal notation
come across a large initialization
of objects in JavaScript, they can get
a little overwhelmed by the syntax.
For example, maybe I'm gonna
create an array of people, so
I use my array literal, my brackets.
Then I'm going to put my first element
in my array, and it's an object,
so I use an object literal.
And then maybe I give it a property,
so here's my name value pairs,
another name value pair.
Then maybe some addresses which are also
an array, so I put brackets there.
And I do maybe a couple of addresses.
And then I'm gonna do my
second element in my array.
So maybe this is Jane,
similar, other addresses.
And as you can see as we're typing,
it starts to get large and
those that aren't used to it can be a bit
intimidated by what they're looking at.
Maybe I'll also add for
Jane a function expression that
defines the method for that object.
So, when you look at this,
when this gets extremely large,
a lot of data,
it can get a bit intimidating.
And maybe, even,
there might be some comments,
as we mentioned in our,
let's do the john object,
as we mentioned in our white space lesson.
But don't be intimidated.
This is really clean and
useful way to initialize data.
And it's also really nice for prototyping.
Say you're building some software that's
not yet connected to a database or an API.
You can easily set up some data
like this to use in your interface.
So that you can see
what it will look like.
And then, when you're ready,
you can have this object get its data,
maybe via some JSON, from an API.
And your interface is already ready for
data that looks like this.
You can do testing,
you could use ability test.
Your interface CF users
can use it all right,
before you go down, the road of
implementing the full software.
So that's good.
Also a good IVE, that is a good
program to do your actual typing in,
your actual programming in, is good.
Brackets, for example,
nicely highlights where my brackets and
curly braces, should be.
If you do find yourself missing little
things, commas are the most often to miss
when you're doing a big
initialization like this.
You'll likely see an error message
that looks something like this,
unexpected something.
An unexpected token maybe or,
maybe if you miss a comma inside an array.
An unexpected string or number.
This just means the syntax parser is going
through and has certain expectations.
And it sees something
that it doesn't expect.
Like, without that comma, it doesn't
expect to see a starting curly brace.
So it says, well, that's unexpected.
So, when you see those kinds of errors
when you have a big initialization like
this, you just need to figure out where
you're missing either your closing or
opening brackets or braces,
your colon, or your comma.
I also find that people
will occasionally do this.
They'll accidentally use equals
instead of colon cuz they're thinking
in terms of setting variables.
And so
you'll get that unexpected token again.
When I'm doing literal syntax object
literal these are colons not equal signs.
So those are just some tips.
This can be very useful to set
up a lot of data quickly and
try it out in your interface.
So don't be intimidated when you see
large initializations of arrays and
objects, it’s useful.
And if we console.log this people array,
which is this top level
variable being initialized, and
I refresh and I have two objects.
That has a length of two
inside my John Doe object.
I have my addresses.
And then I have my second element in
my array which is my Jane Doe object,
which has addresses and a greet method.
And so I can do something like people
the Jane object greet, and there we go.
So my array is nicely initialized and
full of data.
So, this is useful.
That's initialization.